docs/masking.rst, before:

Masking
=======

Getting started
---------------

In addition to supporting the representation of data and associated WCS, it
is also possible to attach a boolean mask to the
:class:`~spectral_cube.SpectralCube` class. Masks can take
various forms, but one of the more common ones is a cube with the same
dimensions as the data, and that contains e.g. the boolean value ``True`` where
data should be used, and the value ``False`` when the data should be ignored
(though it is also possible to flip the convention around). To create a
boolean mask from a boolean array ``mask_array``, you can for example use::

    >>> from spectral_cube import BooleanArrayMask
    >>> mask = BooleanArrayMask(mask=mask_array, wcs=cube.wcs)

Using a pure boolean array may not always be the most efficient solution,
because it may require a large amount of memory.

You can also create a mask using simple conditions directly on the cube
values themselves, for example::

    >>> mask = cube > 1.3

This is more efficient, because the condition is actually evaluated
on-the-fly as needed.

Masks can be combined using standard boolean comparison operators::

   >>> new_mask = (cube > 1.3) & (cube < 100.)

The available operators are ``&`` (and), ``|`` (or), and ``~`` (not).

To apply a new mask to a :class:`~spectral_cube.SpectralCube` class, use the
:meth:`~spectral_cube.SpectralCube.with_mask` method, which can take a mask
and combine it with any pre-existing mask::

    >>> cube2 = cube.with_mask(new_mask)

In the above example, ``cube2`` contains a mask that is the ``&`` combination
of ``new_mask`` with the existing mask on ``cube``. The ``cube2`` object
contains a view to the same data as ``cube``, so no data is copied during
this operation.

Boolean arrays can also be used as input to
:meth:`~spectral_cube.SpectralCube.with_mask`, assuming the shape of the mask
and the data match

    >>> cube2 = cube.with_mask(boolean_array)

Fill values
-----------

When accessing the data (see :doc:`accessing`), the mask may be applied to
the data and the masked values replaced by a *fill* value. This fill value
can be set using the ``fill_value`` initializer in
:class:`~spectral_cube.SpectralCube`, and is set to ``np.nan`` by default. To
change the fill value on a cube, you can make use of the
:meth:`~spectral_cube.SpectralCube.with_fill_value` method::

    >>> cube2 = cube.with_fill_value(0.)

This returns a new :class:`~spectral_cube.SpectralCube` instance that
contains a view to the same data in ``cube`` (so no data are copied).

Inclusion and Exclusion
-----------------------

The term "mask" is often used to refer both to the act of exluding
and including pixels from analysis. To be explicit about how they behave,
all mask objects have an
:meth:`~spectral_cube.masks.MaskBase.include` method that returns a boolean
array. True values in this array indicate that the pixel is included/valid,
and not filtered/replaced in any way. Conversely, True values in the output
from :meth:`~spectral_cube.masks.MaskBase.exclude`
indicate the pixel is excluded/invalid, and will be filled/filtered.
The inclusion/exclusion behavior of any mask can be inverted via
``mask_inverse = ~mask``.

Advanced masking
----------------

Masks based on simple functions that operate on the initial data can be
defined using the :class:`~spectral_cube.LazyMask` class. The motivation
behind the :class:`~spectral_cube.LazyMask` class is that it is essentially
equivalent to a boolean array, but the boolean values are computed on-the-fly
as needed, meaning that the whole boolean array does not ever necessarily
need to be computed or stored in memory, making it ideal for very large
datasets. The function passed to :class:`~spectral_cube.LazyMask` should be a
simple function taking one argument - the dataset itself::

    >>> from spectral_cube import LazyMask
    >>> cube = read(...)
    >>> LazyMask(np.isfinite, cube=cube)

or for example::

    >>> def threshold(data):
    ...     return data > 3.
    >>> LazyMask(threshold, cube=cube)

As shown in `Getting Started`_, :class:`~spectral_cube.LazyMask` instances
can also be defined directly by specifying conditions on
:class:`~spectral_cube.SpectralCube` objects:

   >>> cube > 5
       LazyMask(...)

.. TODO: add example for FunctionalMask

Commit message:

Re-order docs about accessing data and masking.

docs/masking.rst, after:

Masking
=======

Getting started
---------------

In addition to supporting the representation of data and associated WCS, it
is also possible to attach a boolean mask to the
:class:`~spectral_cube.SpectralCube` class. Masks can take
various forms, but one of the more common ones is a cube with the same
dimensions as the data, and that contains e.g. the boolean value ``True`` where
data should be used, and the value ``False`` when the data should be ignored
(though it is also possible to flip the convention around). To create a
boolean mask from a boolean array ``mask_array``, you can for example use::

    >>> from spectral_cube import BooleanArrayMask
    >>> mask = BooleanArrayMask(mask=mask_array, wcs=cube.wcs)

Using a pure boolean array may not always be the most efficient solution,
because it may require a large amount of memory.

You can also create a mask using simple conditions directly on the cube
values themselves, for example::

    >>> mask = cube > 1.3

This is more efficient, because the condition is actually evaluated
on-the-fly as needed.

Masks can be combined using standard boolean comparison operators::

   >>> new_mask = (cube > 1.3) & (cube < 100.)

The available operators are ``&`` (and), ``|`` (or), and ``~`` (not).

To apply a new mask to a :class:`~spectral_cube.SpectralCube` class, use the
:meth:`~spectral_cube.SpectralCube.with_mask` method, which can take a mask
and combine it with any pre-existing mask::

    >>> cube2 = cube.with_mask(new_mask)

In the above example, ``cube2`` contains a mask that is the ``&`` combination
of ``new_mask`` with the existing mask on ``cube``. The ``cube2`` object
contains a view to the same data as ``cube``, so no data is copied during
this operation.

Boolean arrays can also be used as input to
:meth:`~spectral_cube.SpectralCube.with_mask`, assuming the shape of the mask
and the data match

    >>> cube2 = cube.with_mask(boolean_array)

Accessing masked data
---------------------

As mention in :doc:`accessing`, the raw and unmasked data can be accessed
with the :attr:`~spectral_cube.SpectralCube.data_unmasked` attribute.
You can access the masked data using ``filled_data``. This array is a
copy of the original data with any masked value replaced by a fill value
(which is ``np.nan`` by default but can be changed using the ``fill_value``
option in the :class:`~spectral_cube.SpectralCube`
initializer). The 'filled' data is accessed with e.g.::

    >>> slice_filled = cube.filled_data[0,:,:]

Note that accessing the filled data should still be efficient because the data
are loaded and filled only once you access the actual data values, so this
should still be efficient for large datasets.

If you are only interested in getting a flat (i.e. 1-d) array of all the
non-masked values, you can also make use of the
:meth:`~spectral_cube.SpectralCube.flattened` method::

   >>> flat_array = cube.flattened()

Fill values
-----------

When accessing the data (see :doc:`accessing`), the mask may be applied to
the data and the masked values replaced by a *fill* value. This fill value
can be set using the ``fill_value`` initializer in
:class:`~spectral_cube.SpectralCube`, and is set to ``np.nan`` by default. To
change the fill value on a cube, you can make use of the
:meth:`~spectral_cube.SpectralCube.with_fill_value` method::

    >>> cube2 = cube.with_fill_value(0.)

This returns a new :class:`~spectral_cube.SpectralCube` instance that
contains a view to the same data in ``cube`` (so no data are copied).

Inclusion and Exclusion
-----------------------

The term "mask" is often used to refer both to the act of exluding
and including pixels from analysis. To be explicit about how they behave,
all mask objects have an
:meth:`~spectral_cube.masks.MaskBase.include` method that returns a boolean
array. True values in this array indicate that the pixel is included/valid,
and not filtered/replaced in any way. Conversely, True values in the output
from :meth:`~spectral_cube.masks.MaskBase.exclude`
indicate the pixel is excluded/invalid, and will be filled/filtered.
The inclusion/exclusion behavior of any mask can be inverted via
``mask_inverse = ~mask``.

Advanced masking
----------------

Masks based on simple functions that operate on the initial data can be
defined using the :class:`~spectral_cube.LazyMask` class. The motivation
behind the :class:`~spectral_cube.LazyMask` class is that it is essentially
equivalent to a boolean array, but the boolean values are computed on-the-fly
as needed, meaning that the whole boolean array does not ever necessarily
need to be computed or stored in memory, making it ideal for very large
datasets. The function passed to :class:`~spectral_cube.LazyMask` should be a
simple function taking one argument - the dataset itself::

    >>> from spectral_cube import LazyMask
    >>> cube = read(...)
    >>> LazyMask(np.isfinite, cube=cube)

or for example::

    >>> def threshold(data):
    ...     return data > 3.
    >>> LazyMask(threshold, cube=cube)

As shown in `Getting Started`_, :class:`~spectral_cube.LazyMask` instances
can also be defined directly by specifying conditions on
:class:`~spectral_cube.SpectralCube` objects:

   >>> cube > 5
       LazyMask(...)

.. TODO: add example for FunctionalMask
